
Out of this roar of innumerable demons 

hot cinema tarzan sweat 
rolling moth ball eyes yellow teeth   
cries of claws slashes clanks 

a faint high pallor 

dust 

oceans rolling over the dry sand of the savanna 

your houses homes warm still with the buffalo milk   
bladder of elephant . tusk of his stripped tree   
sing soft clinks 

but the barracks 

the dark dark barks of the shark   
boys 
the cool juice of soweto . . . 


out of this dust they are coming 
our eyes listen out of rhinoceros thunder   
darkness of lion 

the whale roar stomping in heaven 
that black bellied night of hell and helleluia 
when all the lights of anger flicker flicker flicker flicker 

and we know somewhere there there is real fire 
basuto mokhethi namibia azania shaka the zulu kenyatta the shatt   
erer the maasai wandering into the everlasting shadow of jah 

daughters lost daughters 

bellowing against bullhorn and kleghorn 
bellowing against bargwart and the searchlights of dogs   
bellowing against crick and the kick in the stomach 

the acrid wretch against the teeth 
bellowing against malan malan malam malan 
and boer and boerwreck and boertrek and truckloads of metal 

helmet and fusil and the hand grenade 
and acid rhodes and the diamonds of oppenheimer   
the opulence of voortresshers the grass streiders . . . 


suddenly like that fire the crows in johannesburg   
you were there 
torn. in tears. tatters 

but the eyes glittered and the fist 
clenching around that scream of your mother bled   
into a black head of hammers 

and the night fell howl   
on soweto 

the night fell howl   
on soweto 

and we who had failed to listen all. those. foot. steps   
who had given you up like a torn paper package 

your heroes       burning in your houses   
                        rising from your dust bowls   
                        flaring from the sky 

                        listen now as the news items lengthen   
                        gathering like hawks looking upward like the   
                        leopard plunging into the turmoil like the 

                        constrictor 

and that crouch/shot 
shout out against that beast and pistol 
the police who shot patrice who castrated kimathi 

                        and clattering clattering clattering clattering   
                        the veldts gun metals wings 
                        rise from their last supper their hunger of bones 

                        bomba 

and the daniels sing 

                        ukufa akuqheleki kodwa ke   
                        kuthiwa akuhlanga lungehlanga   
                        lalani ngenxeba nikhuzeka