
June Jordan, 1936-2002
I. 

The city where I knew you was swift. 
A lover cabbed to Brooklyn 
(broke, but so what) after the night shift 
in a Second Avenue 
diner. The lover was a Quaker, 
a poet, an anti-war 
activist. Was blonde, was twenty-four. 
Wet snow fell on the access 
road to the Manhattan Bridge. I was 
neither lover, slept uptown. 
But the arteries, streetlights, headlines, 
phonelines, feminine plural 
links ran silver through the night city 
as dawn and the yellow cab 
passed on the frost-blurred bridge, headed for 
that day's last or first coffee. 

The city where I knew you was rich 
in bookshops, potlucks, ad hoc 
debates, demos, parades and picnics. 
There were walks I liked to take. 
I was on good terms with two rivers. 
You turned, burned, flame-wheel of words 
lighting the page, good neighbor on your 
homely street in Park Slope, whose 
Russian zaydes, Jamaican grocers, 
dyke vegetarians, young 
gifted everyone, claimed some changes 
—at least a new food co-op. 
In the laundromat, ordinary 
women talked revolution. 
We knew we wouldn't live forever 
but it seemed as if we could. 

The city where I knew you was yours 
and mine by birthright: Harlem, 
the Bronx. Separately we left it 
and came separately back. 
There's no afterlife for dialogue, 
divergences we never 
teased apart to weave back together. 
Death slams down in the midst of 
all your unfinished conversations. 
Whom do I address when I 
address you, larger than life as you 
always were, not alive now? 
Words are not you, poems are not you, 
ashes on the Pacific 
tide, you least of all. I talk to my- 
self to keep the line open. 

The city where I knew you is gone. 
Pink icing roses spelled out 
PASSION on a book-shaped chocolate cake. 
The bookshop's a sushi bar 
now, and PASSION is long out of print. 
We have a Republican 
mayor. Threats keep citizens in line: 
anthrax; suicide attacks. 
A scar festers where towers once were; 
dissent festers unexpressed. 
You are dead of a woman's disease. 
Who gets to choose what battle 
takes her down? Down to the ocean, friends 
mourn you, with no time to mourn. 


 II. 

You, who stood alone in the tall bay window 
of a Brooklyn brownstone, conjuring morning 
with free-flying words, knew the power, terror 
in words, in flying; 

knew the high of solitude while the early 
light prowled Seventh Avenue, lupine, hungry 
like you, your spoils raisins and almonds, ballpoint 
pen, yellow foolscap. 

You, who stood alone in your courage, never 
hesitant to underline the connections 
(between rape, exclusion and occupation...) 
and separations 

were alone and were not alone when morning 
blotted the last spark of you out, around you 
voices you no longer had voice to answer, 
eyes you were blind to. 

All your loves were singular: you scorned labels. 
Claimed black; woman, and for the rest eluded 
limits, quicksilver (Caribbean), staked out 
self-definition. 

Now your death, as if it were “yours”: your house, your 
dog, your friends, your son, your serial lovers. 
Death's not “yours,” what's yours are a thousand poems 
alive on paper, 

in the present tense of a thousand students' 
active gaze at printed pages and blank ones 
which you gave permission to blacken into 
outrage and passion. 

You, at once an optimist, a Cassandra, 
Lilith in the wilderness of her lyric, 
were a black American, born in Harlem, 
citizen soldier 

If you had to die—and I don't admit it— 
who dared “What if, each time they kill a black man / 
we kill a cop?” couldn't you take down with you 
a few prime villains 

in the capitol, who are also mortal? 
June, you should be living, the states are bleeding. 
Leaden words like “Homeland” translate abandoned 
dissident discourse. 

Twenty years ago, you denounced the war crimes 
still in progress now, as Jenin, Rammallah 
dominate, then disappear from the headlines. 
Palestine: your war. 

“To each nation, its Jews,” wrote Primo Levi. 
“Palestinians are Jews to Israelis.” 
Afterwards, he died in despair, or so we   
infer, despairing. 

Top each nation its Jews, its blacks, its Arabs, 
Palestinians, immigrants, its women. 
From each nation, its poets: Mahmoud Darwish, 
Kavanaugh, Shahid 

(who, beloved witness for silenced Kashmir, 
cautioned, shift the accent, and he was “martyr”), 
Audre Lorde, Neruda, Amichai, Senghor, 
and you, June Jordan.
