
Someone had spread an elaborate rumor about me, that I was
 in possession of an extraterrestrial being, and I thought I knew who
 it was. It was Roger Lawson. Roger was a practical joker of the 
 worst sort, and up till now I had not been one of his victims, so
 I kind of knew my time had come. People parked in front of my
 house for hours and took pictures. I had to draw all my blinds
 and only went out when I had to. Then there was a barrage of
 questions. “What does he look like?" “What do you feed him?” “How
 did you capture him?” And I simply denied the presence of an
 extraterrestrial in my house. And, of course, this excited them
 all the more. The press showed up and started creeping around
 my yard. It got to be very irritating. More and more came and
 parked up and down the street. Roger was really working overtime
 on this one. I had to do something. Finally, I made an announcement.
 I said, “The little fellow died peacefully in his sleep at 11:02 
 last night.” “Let us see the body,” they clamored. “He went up
 in smoke instantly,” I said. “I don't believe you,” one of them
 said. “There is no body in the house or I would have buried it
 myself,” I said. About half of them got in their cars and drove
 off. The rest of them kept their vigil, but more solemnly now.
 I went out and bought some groceries. When I came back about an
 hour later another half of them had gone. When I went into the kitchen
 I nearly dropped the groceries. There was a nearly transparent
 fellow with large pink eyes standing about three feet tall. “Why
 did you tell them I was dead? That was a lie,” he said. “You
 speak English,” I said. “I listen to the radio. It wasn't very 
 hard to learn. Also we have television. We get all your channels.
 I like cowboys, especially John Ford moviesJohn Ford movies John Ford (1894-1973) was a Hollywood director, famous for a number of movies, including cowboy movies starring John Wayne, such as “Rio Grande,” “She Wore a Yellow Ribbon,” and “Stagecoach.”. They're the best,”
 he said. “What am I going to do with you?” I said. “Take me
 to meet a real cowboy. That would make me happy,” he said. “I
 don't know any real cowboys, but maybe we could find one. But
 people will go crazy if they see you. We'd have press following
 us everywhere. It would be the story of the century,” I said.
 “I can be invisible. It's not hard for me to do,” he said.
 “I'll think about it. Wyoming or Montana would be our best bet, but
 they're a long way from here,” I said. “Please, I won't cause
 you any trouble,” he said. “It would take some planning,” I said.
 I put the groceries down and started putting them away. I tried
 not to think of the cosmic meaning of all this. Instead, I
 treated him like a smart little kid. “Do you have any sarsaparillasarsaparilla An old-fashioned soft drink. When a character in a Western film would order a sarsaparilla in a bar, instead of an alcoholic beverage, he would be mocked by cowboys.?”
 he said. “No, but I have some orange juice. It's good for you,”
 I said. He drank it and made a face. “I'm going to get the maps
 out,” I said. “We'll see how we could get there.” When I came
 back he was dancing on the kitchen table, a sort of ballet, but
 very sad. “I have the maps,” I said. “We won't need them. I just
 received word. I'm going to die tonight. It's really a joyous
 occasion, and I hope you'll help me celebrate by watching TheThe / Magnificent Seven A famous 1960 western, starring Yul Brynner, Steve McQueen, Charles Bronson, and James Coburn
 Magnificent SevenThe / Magnificent Seven A famous 1960 western, starring Yul Brynner, Steve McQueen, Charles Bronson, and James Coburn,” he said. I stood there with the maps in my 
 hand. I felt an unbearable sadness come over me. “Why must
 you die?” I said. “Father decides these things. It is probably
 my reward for coming here safely and meeting you,” he said. “But
 I was going to take you to meet a real cowboy,” I said. “Let's
 pretend you are my cowboy,” he said.
