
1
  
 This is only a noteThis is only a note / To say Echoes the title of William Carlos Williams's poem, “This Is Just To Say” 
 To sayThis is only a note / To say Echoes the title of William Carlos Williams's poem, “This Is Just To Say” how sorry I am
 You diedYou died Bryan Wynter was a friend of Graham's, and landscape painter (1915-1975). The poem takes both the form of an elegy and a direct address to the deceased Wynter, in the form of a letter (that is, an epistolary poem).. You will realize
 What a position it puts
 Me in. I couldn't really
 Have died for you if so
 I were inclined. The carncarn /Foxglove “The Carn” was the name of Wynter's cottage in the town of Zennor. Carn is an alternate spelling of cairn, a heap of stones used as a landmark or tombstone. A foxglove is a colorful perennial flower, with cup-shaped buds. 
 Foxglovecarn /Foxglove “The Carn” was the name of Wynter's cottage in the town of Zennor. Carn is an alternate spelling of cairn, a heap of stones used as a landmark or tombstone. A foxglove is a colorful perennial flower, with cup-shaped buds. here on the wall
 Outside your first house
 Leans with me standing
 In the Zennor windZennor wind A village in Cornwall, on the southwestern coast England, prone to strong winds .
  
 Anyhow how are things?
 Are you still somewhere
 With your long legslong legs In Graham's poem “Wynter and the Grammarsow,” he terms Wynter “Sir Longlegged” (line 3).
 And twitching smile undertwitching smile under / Your blue hat Critic Fiona Green notes that these lines “resurrect the closing frame of “Lycidas”: “At last he rose, and twitched his mantle blue” (line 192). Milton's “Lycidas” is one of the most famous elegies in the English language. 
 Your blue hattwitching smile under / Your blue hat Critic Fiona Green notes that these lines “resurrect the closing frame of “Lycidas”: “At last he rose, and twitched his mantle blue” (line 192). Milton's “Lycidas” is one of the most famous elegies in the English language. walking 
 Across a place? Or am
 I greedy to make you up
 Again out of memory?
 Are you there at all?
 I would like to think
 You were all right
 And not worried about
 MonicaMonica Bryan Wynter's second wife (née Harman), whom he married in 1959 and the children
 And not unhappy or bored.
  

 2
  
 Speaking to you and not
 Knowing if you are there 
 Is not too difficult.
 My words are used to that.
 Do you want anything?
 Where shall I send something?
 Rice-wine, meandersmeanders A type of artwork. One of Wynter's works at the Tate Gallery in London is titled “Meander I”. In Graham's poem “Wynter and the Grammarsow,” he calls Wynter “Scholar King / Of rare meanders” (lines 18-19)., paintings
 By your contemporaries?
 Or shall I send a kind
 Of news of no time
 Leaning against the wall
 Outside your old house.
  
 The house and the whole moormoor In addition to the definition of uncultivated land, a possible play on the verb, meaning to anchor
 Is flying in the mist.
  

 3
  
 I am up. I've washed
 The front of my face
 And here I stand looking
 Out over the top
 Half of my bedroom window.
 There almost as far
 As I can see I see
 St Buryan's church tower.St Buryan's church tower St. Buryan's is a village in Cornwall. Noted by Sarah Ann Matson as “a greater height than any other church in Cornwall” (St. George and the Dragon [1893]). 
 An inch to the left, behind
 That dark rise of woods,
 Is where you used to lurk.
  

 4
  
 This is only a note
 To say I am aware 
 You are not here. I find
 It difficult to go
 Beside Housman's starHousman's star / Lit fences In A.E. Housman's poem “A Shropshire Lad 52” the last stanza reads: “There, by the starlit fences, / The wanderer halts and hears / My soul that lingers sighing / About the glimmering weirs.” Also, Graham wrote similar lines in an earlier poem, “Wynter and the Grammarsow”: “Walker beside the star / Lit fences of Housman (lines 25-26).
 Lit fencesHousman's star / Lit fences In A.E. Housman's poem “A Shropshire Lad 52” the last stanza reads: “There, by the starlit fences, / The wanderer halts and hears / My soul that lingers sighing / About the glimmering weirs.” Also, Graham wrote similar lines in an earlier poem, “Wynter and the Grammarsow”: “Walker beside the star / Lit fences of Housman (lines 25-26). without you.
 And nobody will laugh
 At my jokes like you.
  

 5
  
 Bryan, I would be obliged 
 If you would scout things out
 For me. Although I am not
 Just ready to start out.
 I am trying to be betterI am trying to be better, Matthew Francis annotates this line in New Collected Poems (2004): “ ‘Try to be better', or ‘TTTB', was a motto of Graham's”,
 Which will make you smile
 Under your blue hat.
  
 I know I make a symbol
 Of the foxgloveFoxglove A foxglove is a colorful perennial flower, with cup-shaped buds. on the wall.
 It is because it knows you.
