
I'm honored to shake the hand of a brave Iraqi citizen who had his hand cut off by Saddam Hussein.     —President George W. Bush, Washington DC, May 25, 2004
“Just ask yourself,” we said back in those days,
“Is this world better off without Saddam Hussein?”
Now that's a simple question. Just ask yourself.

It turned up starkly, undeniably
As that left hand inside the trench Marines were digging
At the prison turned “facility.” 

That was one day's headlined excavation.
Meanwhile, the relics from the tell near Nasiriyah
Were looted from the National Museum.

Is our world better off without Saddam 
Hussein, who had cut off so many other hands?
Our own president had grateful thousands

On hand to honor him, give him a hand 
In DC on the birthday of the Sage of Concord.
In other words, though, is this world better off

Without those who have made it better off?
It's a bit of a riddle, really, how to tell,
But each old hand among us has a hunch.

Is our world better off without Bobby E. Beasely?
Michael Yury Tarlavsky? Craig W. Cherry?
Yadir G. Reynoso? Joshua I. Bunch?

These soldiers' names graced the obituary
Page that day in the LA Times. It's archived. Check it.
But what can we tell from a name? Or measly

Obit? Ask yourself. —Well, more than a bit
Of obit is in the name Tobit, but just what
Tobit of Nineveh—praised for preparing

For righteous burial the Judahites 
Who fell in war against Assyria,
And blessed with a devoted son who saved him—

What Tobit could now have to do with us,
Not even our extravagant friend Emerson
—Though wait! Emer? Cuchulain's perfect mate, 

Worked hand in hand with him, possessor of 
The six great gifts of womanhood, from needlework
Through chastity to sweet words and gentle speech?

—Perhaps not even Emerson could tell, 
Who lauded nature's “rounds” and scorned the divisive “line,”
Its “bounds of good and ill,” and praised perverse

Returns (“Evil will bless, and ice will burn”),
And who would have turned 199
That day in the merry month of Jumada al-awwal

When Bush addressed that brave unnamed Baghdadi.
—Raymond J. Faulstich, Jr., Kane M. Funke.
—What names people have! Stephen I. Yenser!

What monikers, what handles for their children.
—Daniel Lee Galvan...Anyway, without them, mind you,
We'd still have that butcher Saddam Hussein.
—Wait! With them, you mean, we'd still have Saddam?
—Well, it can be perplexing when it's put like that.
—Bemusing. Like the sound of one hand clapping.

—Or one hand washing itself. Is our world better
Off without Roberto Abad? —Abad, Roberto:
What kind of name is that, in any case? 

Middle Eastern? And where's the middle initial?
To tell him from his father, of course. A typo? For Bad,
Roberto A.? “Good is a good doctor,

But Bad is sometimes better” (Emerson)?
Or W, where Emerson and Bush dovetail?
—It seems Roberto got his girlfriend pregnant

In spite of the “Campaign for Children and Families”
Between Iraqi tours in case he didn't come back
From his second, which of course he didn't,

Not for a second, even, to glimpse his son,
Whose name we are not told. Hussein, perhaps—or George.
