
Are you of or not of brain, matter's boss 
              or its crevasse, are you the body itself, 
or more than that, immortal you, crouched
             in flesh, like a vampire packed into a bat? 

Are you housed in me or not? The tenant 
             or the landlord of my skin? Am I your 
avatar? Are you my East Berlin? Are we an I
             or each other's synonym? Last night, 

the train I was on dimmed then re-electrified, 
             and I thought again that we are conscious 
a lot less often than we suppose, that half the time 
             in us you're half reposed. I was in 

South Orange again, city of my former self's last 
             stand. Do you remember him, your swallowed 
twin, the child king whom you deposed? Oh, 
             I know: you think you're the buried light, 

the jeweled glow, the sunlight falling through 
             the falling snow. But I've seen the uranium 
laced through your walls: you're an equation only 
             destruction solves. Who else but you

starts each day with masturbation and ends 
             each night with gin? And so how 
should I begin? Four years ago, you rose 
             in me like a fin. It started as an overflow, 

a drop of go, some royal beast in me, all gasoline 
             and yeast, unhinging its own jaw 
to accelerate the feast, the rails of thought so greased 
             that the outer world began to skew, 

as in that moment on a train when the view 
             becomes a wash of hues. There were clues. 
Phantom music in the air. At times, I'd look down 
             at my body and think, “How'd you get there?” 

One day, I de-napped to find myself entrapped 
             within the tangled logic of a subway 
map. All day, I'd refrain, I'd double-track. 
             I'd talk to myself and myself talked back. 

Was it you? That tick I felt within the trick 
             of thought? That wick that curled itself 
around me, not exploding, just making a constant 
             tick-tick-tick that finally convinced me 

that I was sick, that there was a cascade of toxins
             in the air, that there 
was something queer about the neighbor's 
             stare, that charade of signals everywhere, 

an air raid in the brain, something in me
             left unpaid, a cosmic debt in arrears. 
Some nights, I'd hear the voices of my parents coming 
             near, like waves that overlapped—

she'd slap him, he'd slap her back—their rage 
             a single note that climbed its staff for years, 
my siblings and I in the closet with our fingers 
             in our ears, though still I heard one night 

the knife drawer heaved back, as if they really 
             might slice each other or the house in half, 
and then my thoughts unweaved and I began 
             to laugh. And it is funny, isn't it,

the way that which starts as confession ends 
