
Some years there exists a wanting to escape— you, floating above your certain ache—   still the ache coexists.Call that the immanent you—You are you even before you grow into understanding youare not anyone, worthless,not worth you.Even as your own weight insists you are here, fighting off the weight of nonexistence. And still this life parts your lids, you see you seeing your extending handas a falling wave— /I they he she we you turn only to discover the encounterto be alien to this place.Wait.  The patience is in the living. Time opens out to you. The opening, between you and you, occupied, zoned for an encounter,given the histories of you and you—And always, who is this you?The start of you, each day, a presence already—Hey you— / Slipping down burying the you buried within. You are everywhere and you are nowhere in the day.The outside comes in—Then you, hey you—  Overheard in the moonlight.Overcome in the moonlight.  Soon you are sitting around, publicly listening, when you hear this—what happens to you doesn't belong to you, only half concerns you He is speaking of the legionnaires in Claire Denis's film Beau Travail and you are pulled back into the body of you receiving the nothing gaze—The world out there insisting on this only half concerns you. What happens to you doesn't belong to you, only half concerns you. It's not yours. Not yours only. / And still a world begins its furious erasure—Who do you think you are, saying I to me? You nothing. You nobody. You. A body in the world drowns in it— Hey you—All our fevered history won't instill insight,won't turn a body conscious,won't make that lookin the eyes say yes, though there is nothingto solveeven as each moment is an answer. / Don't say I if it means so little, holds the little forming no one.You are not sick, you are injured—you ache for the rest of life. How to care for the injured body,the kind of body that can't hold the content it is living?And where is the safest place when that place must be someplace other than in the body? Even now your voice entangles this mouth whose words are here as pulse, strumming shut out, shut in, shut up—You cannot say—A body translates its you—you there, hey you / even as it loses the location of its mouth. When you lay your body in the bodyentered as if skin and bone were public places, when you lay your body in the body entered as if you're the ground you walk on,you know no memory should live in these memoriesbecoming the body of you. You slow all existence down with your call detectable only as sky. The night's yawn absorbs you as you lie down at the wrong angleto the sun ready already to let go of your hand.  Wait with methough the waiting, wait up,might take until nothing whatsoever was done. / To be left, not alone, the only wish— to call you out, to call out you.Who shouted, you? Youshouted you, you the murmur in the air, you sometimes
sounding like you, you sometimes saying you,go nowhere,be no one but you first—Nobody notices, only you've known,you're not sick, not crazy, not angry, not sad—It's just this, you're injured. / Everything shaded everything darkened everything shadowedis the stripped is the struck—is the trace is the aftertaste.I they he she we you were too concluded yesterday to know whatever was done could also be done, was also done, was never done— The worst injury is feeling you don't belong so muchto you—
