
					
					Give me the night, you beasts hissing over the face of this deadwoman, I climb into your eyes, looking. To those who would sleepthrough the wounds they inflict on others, I offer pain to help themawaken, Ju-Ju, Tom-Toms & the magic of a talking burning bush.I am the queen of sleight of hand wandering the forest of motives,armed with horoscopes, cosmic encounters & an X-Acto knife. Myright eye is a projector flickering Hottentot & Huey Newton, myleft eye is prism of Wild Style, gold grills, lowriders, black dahlias,blunts & back alleys. At twenty-one, I stood at the crossroad of Hell& Here, evil peering at me behind a blue-red eye. I armed myselfwith the memories of Pentecostal tent revivals, apple orchards, thestrawberry fields I roamed with my mother & aunts in the summer, & the sightings of UFO lights blinking in the black of an Ohio nightsky. I am a weapon. I believe in hoodoo, voodoo, root workers, Dead Presidents, Black Tail, Black Inches & Banjees. I believe in theghosts of 60 million or more & black bones disintegrating at thebottom of the Atlantic, below sea level, Not Just Knee Deep. I believethat children are the future: love them now or meet them at duskat your doorstep, a 9mm in their right hand & a head noisy as ahornet's nest later. Your choice.Black, still, in the hour of chaos, I believe in Royal Crown, Afro-Sheen, Vaseline, Jergens & baby powder on breasts, the collective conscious,cellular memory, Public Enemies, outlaws, Outkast, elevations,“Elevators” & Encyclopedia Britannica. Under my knife, El-Hajj MalikEl-Shabazz laughs with Muhammad Ali, a Lady named Day cuddles with a Boxer named Mister after traumatically stumbling on strangefruit dangling from one of the most beautiful Sycamores evah. Undermy knife, Marilyn Monroe enjoys an evening out with Ella Fitzgerald,meanwhile, Life shows me a gigantic photo. I am a weapon. I chartvoyages of unlove, high on a man called crazy who turns nigger intoprince. I believe in Jong, Clifton, “Dirty Diana” & Dilla, paper, scrilla,green, gumbo, coins, Batty Bois & Video Vixens. I believe that beadsat the ends of braids are percussive instruments in double Dutch. In the reflection of my knife, Cab Calloway, Duke Ellington & Thelonious Monk argue in a Basquiat heroin nod. I am a weapon. I believe in goo-gobs of deep brown apple butter, alphabets, AlagaSyrup, Affrilachians, A-salaam Alaikum, Wa-Alaikum-Salaam,& African Hebrew Israelites. I believe in Octoroons, Quadroons,Culluds, Cooley High, Commodores, Krumpin, Krunk & Burn,Hollywood, Burn.I am Sethe crawling a field toward freedom with a whitegirl talkingabout velvet. I believe in tumbleweaves, hot combs & hair lyes, ChakaKhan, Shaka Zulu, Mau Mau, Slum Village & Buhloone Mindstate:“Empty your mind, be formless, shapeless. Like water.” I believein water. My body is pulp. I bleed ink. I believe in the Fantastic, Vol.2, The Low End Theory, Space Is the Place & The Hissing of Summer Lawns. Tucked in the corner of my right ventricle sprouts a Tree ofKnowledge, lives a Shining Serpent & a middle finger. I'm on a questfor the Marvelous. My face is a mask of malehood, malevolence, onebig masquerade. Metaphysically niggerish, I am a weapon wanderingthe forest of motives, a machete in one hand, a mirror in the other,searching for the nearest body of water.
				