
He heard in curtains of sleet cleaving
 from magnolia leaves encrypted Aztec
 frequencies, he said. When the sun 
god liquors loose each ashen tongue 
the planet tattles. We are advised 
to listen: this he'd grunt to signal his

dwindling fuse and the bartender would 
show him the door. In his honor I tune
 my form to the emanations of this vibrant 
life: Either someone's dropped a blue 
coin and I've picked up the murmur of its 
ribs—a quarter kiltering beneath the blond

brick arcade of the whispering gallery 
at Grand Central—or someone's table
 is ready. No matter that I set my phone
 to airplane while I thumb these lines, I can 
still be reached by tender thought: a dirgeful 
brass cortège stirs the ear inside my chest.

The man has passed. I got the text today, 
and now feel at least obliged to observe 
silence. Observe this café thick with humid 
bodies, mugs wafting florets of breath, steam 
revealing patterns in the glassy chatter. 
For that he is a phantasm rumoring now

a timeless doom, quiet as the carousel 
of a partial print. For that he is finally
 transcendent. For that we convened for
drinks by some clockwork of urban chance 
each week, my year adrift in the East Village. 
For that I renounced him, and now regret

having done so. For that I vibed with his 
passions—more, the deeper we reached in 
our cups, rifling our mind's files for magical 
thinking and secrets in our blood's chemical 
record. I've traveled years through boot-black 
redactions of thought to find his apparition

greet me with a raised fist in the dream of a 
leather trench coat that crunches like gravetop 
snow, dream of the self-schooled on secondary
 sources. He hung a cardboard pyramid to cover 
the bed in which he slept and quested visions 
toward the headwaters of paranoia: nightsweats

of tar, drumbeats marooned in the distant hills, 
Legba tapping his cane on the edge of sanity. 
If you see something. What a fear of hobgoblins 
and philistines can blind our better senses. 
At the table beside me children play mosquito
 tones they say are there, but I am unable to hear.




