
we gave birth to a new generation,
AmeRícan, broader than lost gold
never touched, hidden inside the
puerto rican mountains.

we gave birth to a new generation
AmeRícan, it includes everything
imaginable you-name-it-we-got-it
society.

we gave birth to a new generation,
AmeRícan salutes all folklores,
european, indian, black, spanish
and anything else compatible:

AmeRícan,       singing to composer pedro flores' palm
                           trees up high in the universal sky!

AmeRícan,       sweet soft spanish danzas gypsies
                           moving lyrics la española cascabelling
                           presence always singing at our side!

AmeRícan,       beating jíbaro modern troubadours
                           crying guitars romantic continental
                           bolero love songs!

AmeRícan,       across forth and across back
                           back across and forth back
                           forth across and back and forth
                           our trips are walking bridges!
                           it all dissolved into itself, an attempt
                           was truly made, the attempt was truly
                           absorbed, digested, we spit out
                           the poison, we spit out in malice,
                           we stand, affirmative in action,
                           to reproduce a broader answer to the
                           marginality that gobbled us up abruptly!

AmeRícan,       walking plena-rhythms in new york,
                           strutting beautifully alert, alive
                           many turning eyes wondering,
                           admiring!

AmeRícan,       defining myself my own way any way many
                           many ways Am e Rícan, with the big R and the
                           accent on the í!

AmeRícan,       like the soul gliding talk of gospel
                           boogie music!

AmeRícan,       speaking new words in spanglish tenements,
                           fast tongue moving street corner "que
                           corta" talk being invented at the insistence
                           of a smile!

AmeRícan,       abounding inside so many ethnic english
                           people, and out of humanity, we blend
                           and mix all that is good!

AmeRícan,       integrating in new york and defining our
                           own destino, our own way of life,

AmeRícan,       defining the new america, humane america,
                           admired america, loved america, harmonious
                           america, the world in peace, our energies
                           collectively invested to find other civili-
                           zations, to touch God, further and further,
                           to dwell in the spirit of divinity!

AmeRícan,       yes, for now, for i love this, my second
                           land, and i dream to take the accent from 
                           the altercation, and be proud to call
                           myself american, in the u.s. sense of the 
                           word, AmeRícan, America!


