
His handkerchief, a pin or coin he'd touched,
a button from his shirt, a feather caught
on his coattail — such tokens would fetch a price ...    
Men came to shake his hand, or rub their warts 
upon his famous skin; young mothers held
babies for him to bless with luck or wisdom — 
could he ward off the pox? — while others pressed
bribes for the questions they would have him ask.
One woman, facing down a blush, gave him
a scrap of cloth, and asked that he get blood on it: 
she would return next day to pay him 
if he would care to nominate a fee ... ?
Blood of a witch! Can you believe such a thing?
I think you may be worldly after all.

Boy that I was, I can only guess 
at what he must have made of me; and he,
tricked out in a high-crowned hat, Geneva cape, 
staff, spurs, and bucket-top boots — he might have been
a landed squire or country magistrate ...    
You think us credulous? Of course you do.
So young, so quick to judge! Friend, these were days
of comets in the air, various auguries,
marvellous tempests, sights on the sea — 
that we might have a witch nesting among us
was not the strangest news we heard.
Proceedings would begin at dawn, he said.
Next day we found ourselves at the chapel house
uncertain who had summoned whom.

It fell to me (though why is more than I can say:
I had not then addressed a congregation)
to tell how, ever since her husband's death,
Old Bess had shunned society; how week on week
her vacant place in church would be remarked;
how she had made a stranger of herself
so long that when she turned to her next neighbour, 
begging a bowl of curds, she was denied;
how she cursed him for this; and how his child
sickened and died soon afterwards. I took my seat
light-headed among murmurs of approval,
part of the crowd once more, strange to myself
for all my eloquence, and some three-and-ninety
witnesses rose to give their evidence ...    

But then: “Ask not what mercy justice can afford
until, as civil law requires, you hear
the witch condemned out of her own mouth.” So:
officers must be sent to search her home — 
he called it ten to one that they would find
trinkets such as beads or crucifixes
or other trumpery; meantime she must be stripped
and should the devil's marks be found about her 
(sure enough, two bitch's teats hung down 
between her secrets and the fundament)
then she must be kept from sleep and meat 
and watched most constantly.
      Old Bess confessed

 at first light on the third day. He seized on me
to write her testimony:


    On First of May,

 Year of Our Lord Sixteen Forty-Five,
Elizabeth Bell confessed she kept Familiars
including, but not restricted to, a Greyhound
called Vinegar Tom, a Ferret by the name
of Littleman, a Shrew called Peck-in-the-Crown,
and also a most verminous Mouse called News;
and having summoned up and suckled them
she sent her Imps to spread the Dropsy, and to kill
Richard Tayler's Horse and Michael Edwards's Swine.
And freely she confessed to having met
all hugger-mugger with divers adjacent 
Witches in other Towns (we took their names)