
					
					There are  at  least two  types of people,  the  first for  whom the  ordinary worldliness is easy.  The  regular  social routines  and  material  cares  are nothing too external to them and easily absorbed. They are not alien from the  creation  and  maintenance of the world, and the world does not treat them  as  alien. And also, from  them, the efforts  toward the world, and to them,  the  fulfillment  of the  world's  moderate desires, flow. They are ef-fortless at eating, moving, arranging their arms as they sit or stand,  being hired, being paid, cleaning up,  spending, playing, mating.  They are in an ease and comfort. The world is for the world and for them.Then there are those over whom the events and opportunities of the every-day  world wash  over.  There  is  rarely,  in this  second type, any easy kind of absorption.  There  is only  a  visible  evidence  of having  been made of a different  substance,  one that  repels.  Also, from them,  it is almost impos-sible  to  give  to  the  world  what  it will  welcome or reward. For how does this  second  type  hold  their arms?  Across their chest? Behind their back? And  how  do  they  find  food  to eat  and  then prepare this food? And how do  they  receive  a  check or endorse it? And what also of the difficulties of love  or  being loved, its  expansiveness,  the way it is used for markets and indentured moods?And what is this  second  substance?  And how does it come  to have as one of  its  qualities  the  resistance of the world  as it is?  And also,  what is  the person  made  of  the  second  substance?   Is this a  human or more or  less than one? Where is the true impermeable community of the second human whose  arms  do  not  easily  arrange  themselves and for whom the salaries and  weddings  and  garages do not come?These are, perhaps, not two sorts of persons, but two kinds of fortune. The first is soft and regular. The second is a baffled kind, and magnetic only  to the second substance, and made itself out of a different, second, substance, and having, at its end, a second, and almost blank-faced, reward.
				