
pickerel, n.1 – A young pike; several smaller kinds of N. American pikepickerel, n.2 – A small wading bird, esp. the dunlin, Calidris alpine
I see it clearly, as though I'd known it myself,
             the quick look of Jane in the poem by Roethke — 
that delicate elegy, for a student of his thrown
              from a horse. My favorite line was always her
sidelong pickerel smile. It flashes across her face
              and my mind's current, that smile, as bright and fast
and shy as the silvery juvenile fish — glimpsed,
              it vanishes, quick into murk and swaying weeds — 
a kink of green and bubbles all that's left behind.

I was sure of this — the dead girl's vividness — 
              her smile unseated, as by a stumbling stride — 
till one rainy Cambridge evening, my umbrella
              bucking, I headed toward Magdalene to meet an
old friend. We ducked under The Pickerel's
              painted sign, its coiled fish tilting; over a drink
our talk fell to Roethke, his pickerel smile, and
              I had one of those blurrings — glitch, then focus — 
like at a put-off optician's trip, when you realize

how long you've been seeing things wrongly.
              I'd never noticed: in every stanza, even the first,
Jane is a bird: wren or sparrow, skittery pigeon.
              The wrong kind of pickerel! In my head, her
smile abruptly evolved: now the stretched beak
              of a wading bird — a stint or purre — swung
into profile. I saw anew the diffident stilts
              of the girl, her casting head, her gangly almost
grace, puttering away across a tarnished mirror

of estuary mud. In Homer, the Sirens are winged 
              creatures: the Muses clipped them for their failure.
By the Renaissance, their feathers have switched
              for a mermaid's scaly tail. In the emblem by Alciato
(printed Padua, 1618) the woodcut pictures a pair
              of chicken-footed maids, promising mantric truths
to a Ulysses slack at his mast. But the subscriptio
              denounces women, contra naturam, plied with hind-
parts of fish: for lust brings with it many monsters.

Or take how Horace begins the Ars Poetica,
              ticking off poets who dare too much: mating savage
with tame, or snakes with birds, can only create such
              horrors, he says, as a comely waist that winds up
in a black and hideous fish. The pickerel girl swims
              through my mind's eye's flummery like a game
of perspectives, a corrugated picture: fish one way
              fowl the other. Could it be that Roethke meant
the word's strange doubleness? Neither father

nor lover. A tutor watches a girl click-to the door
              of his study with reverent care one winter evening — 
and understands Horace on reining in fantasy.
