
I can't go up because I don't know how.Nobody has shown me.
So many names, my mother, I'm never sure
    what to call you. So many names for all your predators
    and crushes and suitors. I'm sorry.

I'm sorry I'm here and I'm sorry I'm not here.
   Would you have made it on your own
    without the comorbid condition of motherhood
    and the slowness and consistency of time?

I'm sorry for the slowness and consistency of time;
    years like zombies dawdling toward a cliff edge
    holding back the child's writhing body, itching to grow, packed
    around the same mind I have now.

I'm sorry the concept of promise outgrew the concept of child
    and that systemic contradiction and wizardry left only a dim sense
    of suspicion; a crescendoing breeze, accumulating clouds
    amidst bewildering dichotomies.

I'm sorry for resembling your relatives and captors and the man
    who penetrated you, who's still there, communicating boldly
    via intersections of others' thought waves and memories,
    blatant into the long nights, haunting,

    for my inferiority in the face of nuclear family culture,
    feeding on detritus of white goods, leisure sports, laminate ﬂoors,
    a real home and fake recycling,

    for creeping by night into a tight void, blinds down, brain blown
    glass-thin, electric impulses and bloated thoughts bolted in.
    For this life being the only one my quiet mind knows,

    its many versions and phases, I'm sorry. I wasn't your daughter
     — or anyone — when you were the blue-water navy,
    or the beheaded, or the baby boy. Or was I?

I'm sorry I was not yet born and could not yet hear you
    when you were over there, listening carefully
    for the rain and small movements of animals, for sounds
    of life, through a green, ﬁve-ﬁngered haze.

I'm sorry I consider sentiment, fact; authenticity, originality,
    when they are irrelevant. So many choices
    in supermarkets, the natural habitat of panic attacks, 
    it's enough to make anyone sorry and I am.

I'm sorry it's taking over half a century to link your purple-patched
    brain scan to the basic biology of stress. The piano thunders on,
    sustain pedal wired to the facial muscles of all your neglecters, 
    aching like hell behind their stamina and machinery.

I'm sorry I had, logically, to think of my own self ﬁrst / simultaneously,
    navigating through the ﬁre and acid of Trust and her sycophant
    Love before returning. All the powerful were women; the power
    of penises and facial hair originated there, cajoled by matriarchs.

    As if skin and breath were insigniﬁcant!
I'm so sorry.
    Where are you now, to take into my arms and resuscitate?
    Is it too late, given you're ﬁfty and no longer a child?

    It's always mothers and mind control which is why
I thank you for breaking the cycle, withstanding the enormity
    of generations, magnetic as water,
    to let us go. You weren't to know

    about other outrageous families and sadistic counterparts.
    A nugget of my limbic system remembered choosing my own
    lemon-yellow baby clothes so thank you.

    I squeezed that into the thumb-sized space
    in the palm of my hand knowing all along they were wrong
    and imploding with it.

I'm sorry I wept in the shower for your canceled wedding,
    letting the violet dress down the plughole, unsure 
    what it all meant except things staying the same, future 
    aggravating my brain, a baby brother gone again.

I'm sorry you were out there, alone, deﬁned by the worst
    of others and deﬁned by your children's prisms of hope
    and survival mechanisms. In one version, you did marry and lived
    in a house with green walls and extravagant furniture.

I'm sorry that consensus reality had you set ﬁre to your bed
    as you lay in it; arrested, put in a cell, let off the next day
    because the lawyer believed it was a genuine attempt
    and convinced the police.

I'm sorry you've had to withstand such torrents
    of  knowledgeless advice and legal toxiﬁcation,
    clinging to reality by a sinew of tooth, remembering yourself,
    through the rough and the smooth.

I'm sorry I was absent, memorizing books of the Bible
    for a bar of Dairy Milk, owning up to things
    I'd never done, getting conﬁrmed as an antidote
    to the evil core of me.

I'm sorry it was exotic to think of kids like me
    ending up in prison, coincidentally, inevitably
    or prevented (which is the same), salvaged, peristalsized
    through society, brain safely contained,

    doused daily in cold water or electricity
    or disgrace, temptations kept consistently far enough away
    as to appear illusory

    like you, my brave mother, fantastic prodigy
    in ﬂowing white caftan, knotted long brown hair, a beautiful gaze
    of solemnity, rare stone, emotionless (deﬁned by others).

I'm sorry I was ill-prepared for your soiled mattress
    and comatose body, under a wave of advocaat 
    and transistor radios oozing with cheap Scotch. Even I
    developed feelings for them amidst adults acting like it's okay

    to leave you this way, the blue bottle ﬂies in on it,
    inﬂated with dog shit and red hot egos, resting on your cheek,
    your lip, too cunning to get rid of.

I'm sorry that laughing off a difficult childhood
    didn't make it never happen. Even a basic calculator
    recognizes an inﬁnite loop as a malfunction; don't they see cutting
    off my privates every night